3. Interface design:
Describes how the software elements, hardware elements, and end-users communicate with one another, it is derived from the analysis model scenario-based elements, flow-oriented elements, and behavioral elements.

4. Component-level design:
Created by transforming the structural elements defined by the software architecture into a procedural description of the software components using information obtained from the analysis model class-based elements, flow-oriented elements, and behavioral elements
It is place where quality is fostered.

It provides us with representation of software that can be assessed for quality.

Only way that can accurately translate a customer’s requirements into a finished software product.

It serves as foundation for all software engineering activities.

Without design difficult to assess:
Risk 
Test
Quality
S/w design is an iterative process through which requirements are translated into a “blueprint” for constructing the s/w. 

As design iteration occur, subsequent refinement leads to design representation at much lower levels of abstraction.

Goal of Design Process:
The design must implement all of the explicit requirements contained in the analysis model, and it must accommodate all of the implicit requirements desired by the customer.

The design must be a readable, understandable guide for those who generate code and for those who test and subsequently support the software.

The design should provide a complete picture of the software, addressing the data, functional, and behavioral domains from an implementation perspective.

A design should exhibit an architecture that 
has been created using recognizable architectural styles or patterns, 
is composed of components that exhibit good design characteristics and 
can be implemented in an evolutionary fashion

A design should be modular; that is, the software should be logically partitioned into elements or subsystems.

A design should contain distinct representations of data, architecture, interfaces, and components.

A design should lead to data structures that are appropriate for the classes to be implemented and are drawn from recognizable data patterns.


A design should lead to components that exhibit independent functional characteristics

A design should lead to interfaces that reduce the complexity of connections between components and with the external environment.

A design should be derived using a repeatable method that is driven by information obtained during software requirements analysis.

A design should be represented using a notation that effectively communicates its meaning.

Hewlett-Packard [Gra87] developed a set of software quality Attributes as FURPS—Functionality, Usability, Reliability, Performance, and Supportability.

Functionality is assessed by evaluating the feature set and capabilities of the program, the generality of the functions that are delivered, and the security of the overall system.

Usability is assessed by considering human factors overall aesthetics, consistency, and documentation.

Reliability is evaluated by measuring the frequency and severity of failure, the accuracy of output results, the mean-time-to-failure (MTTF), the ability to recover from failure, and the predictability of the program.
Performance is measured by considering processing speed, response time, resource consumption, throughput, and efficiency.

Supportability combines the ability to extend the program (extensibility), adaptability, serviceability—these three attributes represent a more common term, maintainability and in addition, testability, compatibility, configurability, the ease with which a system can be installed, and the ease with which problems can be localized.
S/W design is both a process and a model.

Design process - sequence of steps that enable the designer to describe all aspects of the software to be built.
Design model - created for software provides a variety of different views of the computer software.

Principles:
The design process should not suffer from ‘tunnel vision.’  -  Designer should consider alternative approaches.

The design should be traceable to the analysis model - a single element of the design model often traces to multiple requirements, it is necessary to have a means for tracking how requirements have been satisfied by the design model.

The design should not reinvent the wheel-  use already exists design pattern because time is short and resource are limited.
The design should “minimize the intellectual distance” between the software and the problem as it exists in the real world. – design should be self-explanatory.

The design should exhibit uniformity and integration – before design work begins rules of styles and format should be defined for a design team. 

The design should be structured to accommodate change

The design should be structured to degrade gently, even when unusual data, events, or operating conditions are encountered. 

Design is not coding, coding is not design. 

The design should be assessed for quality as it is being created, not  after the fact

10. The design should be reviewed to minimize conceptual (semantic) errors.
In these concepts software engineer to answer the following questions:
What criteria can be used to partition software into individual components?
How is function or data structure detail separated from a conceptual representation of the software?
What uniform criteria define the technical quality of a software design?

Design concepts provide the necessary framework for “to get the thing on right way”.

At the highest level of abstraction – a solution is stated in broad terms using language

At lower level of abstraction – a more detailed description of the solution is provided. Procedural orientation is taken.

Two types of abstraction:
Procedural abstraction: Sequence of instructions that have a specific and limited function. 
Ex. Open a door
open implies long sequence of activities (e.g. walk to the door, grasp knob, turn knob and pull the door, etc).

Data abstraction: collection of data that describes a data object. 
Ex. Open a door. – door is data object.
Data abstraction for door would encompass a set of attributes that describe the door. (E.g. door type, swing direction, opening mechanism, etc.)
